Java Standard Edition Versions
Next we'll see the different versions of
the standard version of Java.
In 1996 Java was born, originally called OAK.
In 1997 the version 1.1 arises in which it
includes the first visual form of Java known
as AWT (Abstract Window Toolkit), among several
other APIs.
An API (Application Programming Interface)
and is a set of classes and libraries to solve
a specific problem, for example the JDBC API
that allows us to connect to a database, among
several other APIs.
We'll see the evolution of the Java Standar Versions.
One of the most important changes in the Java
versions was made in the version
5 version and the Java version 8.
In the java version 5 the concept of Generics
was introduced, which changed the way we did
conversion between Java objects, assigning
a specific type to be used especially when
working with collections.
This eliminated many of the execution errors
when handling object types and specifying
the type of data a collection should contain.
And the biggest change for java, not only
because of the years that have passed and
the language has matured, but because it also
implies a paradigm shift, is the inclusion
of lambda expressions, with which we can combine
the power of oriented programming to objects
with functional programming, that although
it is not a new paradigm, if it is something
new for Java programmers.
I know that several of these concepts or topics
are new to many of the programmers that start
with Java, however many of this topics are precisely what we are going to study studying in this and the following
courses of their specialization in Java technology.
Although there are already version 9 and 10
of Java in the market, these versions are
not yet supported by application servers such
as Glassfish 5, therefore the version we will
use throughout the course will be the Java
SDK 8 version, which is the version currently
supported by most application tools and servers.
As we begin to support the current versions
of Java we'll begin to include them as they
apply to the real Java world.
meanwhile it's our recommendation not to use it in production environment
because it's not supported for many of out tools that we use today
Current position of Java
As we can see today Java technology continues
to dominate the world of programming, and
this is just one of the reasons why studying
and mastering Java takes you one step ahead
of any competition you have along the way.
However, in many cases we have been told that
learning Java is very difficult, and that
is old fashion,  and it's not worth learning Java.
That it's not true. Because the market demands a lot of Java Programmers. So if you want
to be able to incorporate
in the thousands of job opportunities,
both national and international generated
by the Java system development market, you have to be very well prepared in this language
And although there is a lot of competition
in the systems development market, there is
still a shortage of Java programmers, so there
will always be many opportunities for people
who are well prepared and specialized like
you
Java and the Software Industry
In addition to the features already described
in Java, it is important to mention several
other reasons why to be a Java expert.
Fortunately, there is a community of millions
of Java programmers worldwide, this allows
fellow programmers to contribute knowledge
and solutions to many of the problems that
we can face on a day-to-day basis, and unlike
other languages ​​and / or development
platforms, in which knowledge is very closed,
the Java community contributes abundant free
content through the internet, so many solutions
can be found through these communities and
support forums that exist worldwide.
The support to Java that the large software
industries provide, allows Java to be the
number one option today when we are about
to select a new project, this in turn allows
excellent job opportunities to be generated
worldwide and although there are many programmers,
the demand for them far exceeds the number
of programmers needed to meet this demand.
This allows us to have a
lot of opportunities for our growth and professional
development. And if we are well prepared, there are a lot of opportunities in this market.
In addition, learning Java facilitates learning
other programming languages, since good
practices, design patterns, frameworks and
other technologies that are generated due
to Java development are usually adopted by
other languages ​​and technologies to
also facilitate their software developments.
so, once Java is learned, it will be easier
to understand and communicate with other programmers
of other programming languages.
These are just some of the most important
reasons why to become a Java Expert.
With this we already have more clear both
the history, the main characteristics and
the reasons for which to master Java.